

----------------------------------------------------------------------
   1. Introduction
   2. Installation
      2.1. Automatic installation
      2.2. Manual installation
      2.3. After installing
   3. Description of the AppleScript menu
   4. File name conventions
   5. Working directory
   6. Memory management
   7. The Mark pop-up menu
   8. The Functions pop-up menu
   9. Option clicking the title bar
   10. Completions
   11. Key bindings
   12. AppleScript Mode preferences
   13. Version History
   14. Known problems
   15. License and Disclaimer
----------------------------------------------------------------------

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

					Abstract

This is a help file for the AppleScript mode in Alpha. This file should  be
located in the Help subfolder of Alpha's folder to show up automatically in
the Help menu when Alpha is loaded.



1. Introduction

AppleScript mode is a mode for the text editor Alpha: it is designed to
facilitate editing, compiling, decompiling, executing and processing of
scripts written in the AppleScript language, with all the powerful editing
facilities provided by Alpha.

Once you are in AppleScript mode, there is a new menu  (designated  by  the
AppleScript editor icon) in the menu bar giving access to all the  features
described below.

AppleScript mode requires the Tclapplescript extension to be present on
your system. It is, for instance, distributed with the 
Batteries Included Tcl/Tk <http://tcltkaqua.sourceforge.net/>
distribution. Note that the AppleScript Editor application does not have to
be launched or even present on your computer for this mode to work.
AppleScript mode relies entirely on the Tclapplescript extension which
interacts directly with the MacOS Open Scripting Architecture.

The AppleScript mode is identified, in the modes pop-up menu at the right
of the status bar, by the four-letters code Scrp.

2. Installation

If you have Apple Script Mode as a part of the distribution of Alpha, you
do not have anything to do: it is installed with the whole system. If you
received it as a separate package, follow the instructions below which
describe two methods of installation.

2.1. Automatic installation

Open the OPEN TO INSTALL file. Opening this file indicates to Alpha  that
a new package has to be installed: the procedure is automatic. Alpha knows
where to store the different elements of your AppleScript Mode package.
 
2.2. Manual installation
    • put the Applescript Mode folder in the Modes subfolder
of the Tcl folder which is located at the same level as your Alpha
application

    • put the AppleScript Help file in the Help folder
located at the same level as your Alpha application. Next time you launch
Alpha, you will have an AppleScript Help item in the Help menu to
edit this file.

    • put the files AppleScript-Example and  AppleScript-Example.tcl  in
the Examples folder located at the same level as your Alpha application.

    • if there is an AppleScripts folder (containing sample
scripts), it should be located at the same level as Alpha itself.

    • launch Alpha. You have to rebuild the package indices and the Tcl
ones. Rebuild Package Indices is in the Config--Packages menu, and
Rebuild Tcl Indices is in the Tcl menu.
 
    • quit Alpha and relaunch it: that's all there is to it. 


2.3. After installing

Read the AppleScript  Tutorial  which  can  be  opened  directly  from  the
AppleScript menu. For  reference  info,  read  the  AppleScript  Help  file
accessed from the Help menu. Have a look at the mode specific preferences:
create or open any AppleScript source file  and  choose  Preferences…  in
the Mode Prefs submenu of the Config menu (or simply hit  F12  when  in
AppleScript mode).


3. Description of the AppleScript menu

Here is the description of the AppleScript menu items:


<New Script >
Open a new editing window in AppleScript mode. This does not create a file
on disk until you save the window.

<Decompile A Script… >
Brings up a dialog to select a compiled script: the script is decompiled
and edited in a new window in AppleScript mode.

<Run A Script… >
Brings up a dialog to select a compiled script and run it. The result of
the excution is output in the AppleScript Results window.

<Apple Script Flags>
This submenu contains various flags concerning scripts compilation and some
preferences. See the AppleScript Mode Tutorial for various examples.  These
flags  are  synchronized  with  the  corresponding  mode  preferences  (see
AppleScript mode preferences below).

<Augment Context >
This flag supposes that you are compiling the current window as a  context:
if it has already been compiled and if this  flag  is  set,  then  the  new
instructions will be added to the already existing context. Otherwise  they
replace what is already in the context.

<Include Description >
Add an environment at the beginning of  the  source  script  to  specify  a
descriptive comment which will be stored in the compiled script.

<Inherit From Parent >
When compiling a script as a context, this flag lets  you  specify  another
context script from which it will inherit: all the  properties,  handlers,
variables etc. (bindings in the AppleScript parlance) stored in the  parent
will be available to the new context.

<Launch To Get Terminology >
This flag affects the Open a dictionary command. If it is set, the
command will first look for dynamic terminology in the application whose
dictionary you open: if there is dynamic terminology, the application has
to be launched in order to provide this terminology. This flag lets you
specify if you accept that the application be launched. Otherwise,
AppleScript Mode will look for static terminology which does not require
the application to be launched: if dynamic terminology is available,
AppleScript mode will print a warning to let you know anyway. Not all
applications have dynamic terminology: it concerns mainly applications
supporting plugins and extensions (Alpha8 has dynamic terminology, Alpha7
does not).

<Make Context >
Compile the current window as a context script. This  script  can  be  used
later to compile another script in this context. Note that when you compile
a script with this flag set, it is immediately executed in  order  to  make
its data available: for an ordinary script, executing  some  action  rather
than defining data, this is generally not what you want.

<Run In Context >
This flag lets you run a script in a specific context. The context can be
selected by opening, with the Control key held down, the Scripts submenu in
the AppleScript menu.



<Compile >
Compile the contents of the current selection (or the entire contents of
the topmost window if no region is selected). In AppleScript Mode, this
means compiling as binary code and storing the result on disk. If the
window does not correspond yet to a file on disk (for instance if it is a
new script created using the New Script item), the compiled script will
be written in the AppleScripts folder in Alpha's folder. Otherwise the
compiled script will be in the same folder as the source file. If there is no
selection, the entire contents of the current window are compiled;
otherwise only the selection is compiled.

<Execute>
This is equivalent to compiling and running the script edited in the
topmost window. In this case the script is just compiled internally: it is
not written on disk and the compiled script is freed from memory as soon as
its execution completes. The result of the execution is sent to the 
AppleScript Results window. If there is no selection, the entire
contents of the current window are executed; otherwise only the selection
is executed.

<Run >
Run the script edited in the current window. It must have been previously
compiled. If it is not compiled yet or if it has been changed since the
last compilation, Alpha will let you know and offer to compile or recompile
the script before running it.
The result is sent to the AppleScript Results window.

<Check Syntax>
Check the syntax of the script edited in the current window. Any error will 
be reported in the AppleScript Results window.

<Apple Script Utils>
This submenu contains subsidiary features.



<Add Description>
Insert a special comment at the beginning of the edited script  to  give  a
description the script. This comment is stored in the compiled  script.  In
AppleScript Editor, it is shown in the Description edit field at the  top
of the editing window. In Alpha, we  display  it  in  a  comment  with  the
following structure:

	 (* Description
	 	    Text of the comment here
	 *)

This comment must be located at the beginning of the script  prior  to  any
instruction. 
If the Include Description preference is  set  (see  Preferences  below),
Alpha will display the comment if one is found  when  editing  a
compiled script or it will write the comment into the  compiled  script  at
compilation time. If the preference is not  set,  the  description  comment
will not be taken into account.
 If the Option key is pressed, the item Add Description is changed  to
Delete Description. This will delete the  descriptive  comment  from  the
edited script if there is one. You'll have to recompile to have it  deleted
from the compiled script too.

<Line Continuation>
Insert the line continuation symbol (¬) which is not always easy to
find on the keyboard, especially on international keyboards.

<Open A Dictionary… >
Get the scripting terminology of a scriptable application. This procedure
takes care of various possible situations which are checked in the
following order:
    • does the application accept the Get AETE Apple Event? If yes,
it means that it has an 'scsz' resource and is able to provide its
scripting terminology at runtime. This is useful for applications which
accept external plug-ins which are also scriptable.
    • does the application have resources of type 'aete'?

The terminology information (aka scripting dictionary) is output, in human
readable form, in as many files as there are 'aete' resources reported.

<Colour and Mark Dictionary>
Just as it says. Events, classes, keywords etc. are colored. The events and
classes are marked: marks are accessible, in alphabetical order, in the
Marks popup menu on the right border of the window.

<Dump Mem Info>
Output information about the scripts and contexts which have been compiled
during the current session and stored in memory.

<Clear Memory>
Frees the memory occupied by compiled scripts and contexts. Once the memory
is cleared, the scripts are not available anymore for immediate execution
and have to be recompiled. This concerns only the scripts you want to run
manually with the Run command. Scripts you run from the Scripts
submenu or with the Run A Script... item are handled directly by
AppleScript mode.

<AppleScript Bindings>
Display the key bindings available in AppleScript Mode.

<AppleScript Tutorial>
Open the AppleScript Mode tutorial in a shell window.





<Scripts Folder>
This submenu contains the names of all the compiled scripts stored in the
current working folder, i-e the folder designated by the AppleScripts
Folder preference (by default it is a folder called AppleScripts 
and located at the same level as the Alpha application itself). The
submenu behaves differently depending on the modifier key which is pressed
as you open it:
    • if no modifier key is pressed, the first item  is  "Rebuild  scripts
list" which lets you update the menu when the contents of the  AppleScripts
folder have been modified. If you click on the name of a script, it will be 
executed.
    • if the option-key is pressed, all the items are prefixed with the word
•edit•: this allows you to decompile and edit the script instead of
executing it. In this case the first item in the submenu becomes Reveal
scripts folder which switches to the Finder and opens the corresponding
folder.
    • if the control-key is pressed, the menu lets you specify a script to
be used as a context script. The selected script is marked with a bullet.
It will be used if the Run in context flag is set in the Apple
Script Flags submenu. In this case the first item in the submenu becomes
Select a context and brings an info dialog window.
    • if the shift-key is pressed, the menu lets you specify a context
script to be used as a parent for the script you want to compile. The
selected script is marked with a diamond. It will be used only if the flags
Make context and Inherit from parent are both set in the
Apple Script Flags submenu. In this case the first item in the submenu
becomes Select a parent context and brings an info dialog window.

Mnemonic tip: control for context, shift for parent.




4. File name conventions
By default, when compiling the source of a script, the name of the compiled
script is set like this:
    • if it has no extension, an .scpt extension is added;
    • if it has an extension different from .scpt, this extension is
replaced by .scpt;
    • if it already has an .scpt extension, then you are asked to
give a name yourself for the compiled script.


This name is remembered by Alpha (until the moment when you quit Alpha), so
that you are not asked over again each time you recompile your script.

When decompiling a script to edit its source code, the editing window is
named after the name of the script with an additional .scr
extension. This can be changed if necessary when you decide to save the
source script.

Concerning terminology dictionaries, the output files are named after the
name of the application followed by a .dict extension and a
sequential numbering in case there are several Apple Event Terminology
resources. If the resource has a name (and not only an ID number), this
name is used.

In any case, the file names will be truncated and shortened so that they do
not excess a 32 chars limit. For instance a script editing window called

	 GetUSBPrinterSharingVersionNumber.scpt 

will be compiled under the name: 

	 GetUSBPrinterSharingVersi…umber



5. Working directory
The Scripts submenu shows the contents of the working directory:
this is the folder where your scripts will be stored when you compile them.
This folder can be set and modified (see preferences below). The default
name and location of the working folder is AppleScripts in the same
folder as Alpha itself.
 If this folder can't be found (if it has been deleted or renamed for
instance), AppleScript mode will create a new one automatically when
necessary.


6. Memory management

When you recompile a script, Alpha warns you if the script has already been
compiled previously and no changes have been made since the last
compilation. On the other hand, when you try to run the current window,
Alpha warns you if the script has not yet been compiled or if it has been
modified since the last compilation.

Each time a script is loaded or compiled, it is kept in memory and a token
is returned to identify it for later reference. AppleScript Mode keeps
track of these tokens so that you don't have to bother about them. Thanks
to this internal mechanism, you don't have to recompile a script each time
you want to run it. The same is true for scripts compiled as contexts.

You can use the Dump Mem Info to know which compiled scripts are
currently stored in memory: it outputs a list indicating the token and the
corresponding script file on disk. If you want to free the memory occupied
by these compiled scripts, use the Clear memory command in the
Apple Script Utils submenu: this will destroy all the script tokens (except
for the global context which is never destroyed).

To know which scripts or contexts are currently in memory, open  a  Tcl
shell and type one of the following commands:

	 AppleScript info scripts
	 AppleScript info contexts
 


7. The Mark pop-up menu
The marking procedure marks all the function definitions (aka handlers in
AppleScripts parlance), i-e all the statements of the form:

	 on functname(params)
	     -- instructions
	 end functname

The error statements (on  error  etc.)  are  not  marked  though  by  the
procedure since they do not correspond to function definitions.


8. The Functions pop-up menu

There is no mode specific behaviour for the functions pop-up menu (top right  of
your editing window, with a pair of braces icon).


9. Option clicking the title bar

If you Option-Click on a the title bar, you get a list of all the  compiled
script files present in the current working folder. Clicking on any of them
will decompile it and edit it in a new window.


10. Completions

There is a set of completion procedures in AppleScript mode. 
To  enable  them,  you  must  activate  the  elecCompletion  package  (in
"Config--" Preferences--" Features") and choose   your    completion    key
(default is F1).

There is a set of electric abbreviations. Just type one of the  following
abbreviations and hit the  completion  key  to  have  them  expanded  to  a
complete structure:
    • tell
    • on
    • if
    • try
    • repeat

For instance tell will result in:

	 tell application "|"
	 |
	 end tell


You can also type the first letters of an AppleScript keyword and  hit  the
completion key. If it is recognized as a keyword, it will be completed.  If
there are different possible completions, they will be listed in the status
bar: hit the completion key again and you will have  a  list  of  all  the
possibilities from which you can select the one you want.


11. Key bindings

A few mode specific key bindings are defined in AppleScript mode: all of
them use the combination 'ctrl-a' followed by a letter. For instance, to
decompile and edit a script, hit 'ctrl-a' and then the letter 'o'. The
following bindings are available:
 'ctrl-a b' to display the info about bindings              
 'ctrl-a c' to compile the current window or selection      
 'ctrl-a d' to get a scripting dictionary                   
 'ctrl-a e' to execute (compile and run) the current window 
 'ctrl-a f' to free compiled scripts stored in memory       
 'ctrl-a l' to insert the line continuation symbol (&#172;) 
 'ctrl-a m' to dump memory info                             
 'ctrl-a n' to create a new script                          
 'ctrl-a o' to decompile and open a script                  
 'ctrl-a r' to select and run a script                      
 'ctrl-a s' to check the syntax of the current window       



12. AppleScript Mode preferences

The Preferences… item in the Mode Prefs submenu of  the  Config  menu
allows you to edit specific preferences defined in the AppleScript mode.

The AppleScripts Folder preference lets you set  your  working  directory
where your compiled scripts will be stored. You can access  any  script  in
this folder from the Scripts submenu  as  described  above.  The  working
folder can be changed at will. If it has been deleted,  moved  or  renamed,
Alpha will recreate it as necessary.

Set the Include Description preference if you want  AppleScript  mode  to
take care of the description comment which is stored in  compiled  scripts.
See above the Add Comment menu item for a description of  the  syntax  of
this comment.

The other preferences are 
    • Augment Context
    • Inherit From  Parent
    • Launch  To  Get  Terminology
    • Make  Context
    • Run  In Context

They have the same meaning as the corresponding flags in the  Apple  Script
Flags submenu: preferences and submenu  flags  are  synchronized.  Settings
made in the preferences will be remembered the next time you  launch  Alpha
and will be reflected by the submenu.


13. Version History
    • 1.0.1 - 01/03/31 -  Previous versions  of  AppleScript  mode  by  John
Sarapata <sarapata_john@jpmorgan.com>
    • 2.0 - 02/03/12 - Complete rewriting of the AppleScript  mode  to  take
advantage of the Tclapplescript shared library and Alpha8.
    • 2.1 - 02/06/07 - Added a preference to set the working directory.
    • 2.2 - 02/09/25 - Modified ASTerminology to rely on TclAE  library  for
parsing. Enhanced the mode  to  handle  contexts  and  various  compilation
flags. Choice of format for tutorial. Doc updated.



14. Known problems
    • There is currently no possibility of recording.


Please e-mail any problem or bug you encounter: 
<bdesgraupes@easyconnect.fr>

Goto the Alpha utilities page:
 <http://webperso.easyconnect.fr/bdesgraupes/alpha.html>


15. License and Disclaimer

(c) Copyright: Bernard Desgraupes, 2002-2004
        All rights reserved.

This software is free software and distributed under the terms of  the  new
BSD license:
Redistribution and  use  in  source  and  binary  forms,  with  or  without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
    • Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    • Redistributions in binary form  must  reproduce  the  above  copyright
notice, this list  of  conditions  and  the  following  disclaimer  in  the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
    • Neither  the  name  of  Bernard  Desgraupes  nor  the  names  of  its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived  from  this
software without specific prior written permission.

This software is provided by the copyright holders and contributors as is
and any express or implied warranties, including, but not limited  to,  the
implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular  purpose
are disclaimed. In no event  shall  the  contributors  be  liable  for  any
direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential  damages
(including,  but  not  limited  to,  procurement  of  substitute  goods  or
services; loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption)  however
caused and  on  any  theory  of  liability,  whether  in  contract,  strict
liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in  any  way
out of the use of this software, even if advised of the possibility of such
damage. 

