-*-Help-*-

Emacs Help

                                               version: 0.3.3
                                               created: 09/08/1997 {04:32:40 pm}
                                           last update: 03/06/2006 {08:38:07 PM}


This help file describes the "Emacs" package.


	  	Table Of Contents


"# Introduction"
"# Emacs Submenu"
"# Emacs Key Bindings"
"#   Macros"
"#   Alpha Shortcuts"
"#   Window Manipulation"
"#   Text and Cursor Manipulation"
"#   Meta Keys"
"# Recent Changes"

<<floatNamedMarks>>


	  	Introduction


The emacs package provides a set of keyboard shortcuts that mimic those used
in the Emacs editor.  The emacs editor enjoys wide-spread popularity on unix
systems.  Pete Keleher acknowledges it as part of the inspiration for Alpha.

When you turn on the Emacs package using "Config > Global Setup > Features"

Preferences: Features

a number of emacs-like keyboard shortcuts will be made available for every
editing window.

The procedures and commands that get keyboard shortcuts through this package
primarily deal with: navigation in the text (buffer), text manipulation, and
window appearance & positioning for the most part (aside: the use of the word
"buffer" to refer to a text containing window probably comes from emacs).

A lot of the keyboard shortcuts are unusual compared to those used in 'normal'
Macintosh editor/word processors, so it if fair to wonder what the advantages
of these shortcuts are for those not already used to emacs.  Well, the primary
advantage is in keeping your hands close to the home keys, you rarely have to
move away from the alpha-numeric portion of the keyboard into the arrow,
keypad or function key areas if you use this package.


	  	Emacs Submenu


Since the shortcuts/functionality used by emacs may not yet be second nature
to you, you can have this package include a submenu under 'Edit' that can
serve as a handy reference to jog your memory, and as an alternative method of
invoking a desired operation.  The inclusion of this submenu is the default
behavior of this package, if they are already second nature to you, or, become
so, you can remove it by unchecking 'Use Emacs Menu' under the 'Miscellaneous'
section of the globals dialog.

Preferences: Packages


	  	Emacs Key Bindings


NB: On MacOS, 'Control' is used for the multi-char sequences.  On windows,
'Alt-X' and 'Alt-C' are used instead of 'Control-X' and 'Control-C' (to avoid
clashing with the Cut/Copy shortcuts).

The Control modifier is used in a lot of these shortcuts, this modifier is
rarely used in other Macintosh applications, but was the first non-ordinary
modifier available on early keyboards.  Those keyboards had only one Control
key, and it was located where the capslock key is today.  This kept your hands
even more tightly concentrated than the current arrangement, you only needed
to stretch your little finger over a tiny bit and then you could make all your
Control combinations with ease.  Today's keyboards are pretty well standardize
with the two Control keys in the lower corners.

This configuration makes these Control combinations a little less convenient,
it's more of a stretch away from the home row position and makes the use of
one hand to press both the Control key and the 'regular' key a difficult
stretch for some combinations.  The reason the Control keys have assumed their
current configuration is that programmers form a pretty small subset of the
people who use computers so the keyboard makers moved those mysterious and
"useless" keys out of harms way.  Perhaps Pete will one day add the ability to
swap the caps-lock and lefthand Control key functionality while you are using
alpha.  The keyboard I use (a Datadesk Switchboard) allows you to do this
physically, I find the emacs shortcuts even more time saving in that
configuration.

If you do get used to the Control key combinations, there is a bonus as
regards "Scrolling List" dialogs that you may not be aware of, as long as
there is a selection in the list, the following key combinations will work:

	Control--' (i.e. Control-Minus) == Down-Arrow
	Control-L == Page-Down
	Control-K == Page-Up


All of the shortcuts below start with Control-X, and then are followed by the
indicated key.  In some cases, the key must be also be preceded by the
modifier key indicated.  For example, "Control-X Control-F" will open a "Open
File" dialog.  Click on the hyperlink to open the actual Tcl procedure to
which the key combination is bound.

This is only a partial list of the shortcuts associated with the emacs
package.  See the "Edit > Emacs" submenu for a complete list of the functions
and shortcuts.


	  	 	Macros


	Control-X Shift-(

command: startKeyboardMacro , also bound to F13

	Control-X Shift-)

command: endKeyboardMacro , also bound to F14

	Control-X E

command: executeKeyboardMacro , also bound to F15


See the "Macros Help" file for more information.

Note: the shortcut Control-U, optionally followed by a number, is bound to the
command: iterationCount , and repeats the following action X number of times.
If no number is specified, If no number is entered, the action will be
repeated 4 times.

For example, pressing

	Control-U 3 Control-X E

will repeat the most recently defined macro 3 times in succession.


	  	 	Alpha Shortcuts


	Control-X Control-C

command: quit , also bound to Command-Q

Quits Alpha, prompting to save any open modified files if necessary.

	Control-X Control-F

proc: findFile , also bound to Command-O

Opens an "Open File" standard dialog.

	Control-X M           

proc: matchingLines 

Opens a dialog in which you can enter a regular expression to be searched
in the current window.


	  	 	Window Manipulation


	Control-X L

proc: zoom , also bound to Control-/

Toggles the size of the current window from full to default.
 
	Control-X B

proc: chooseWindowStatus , also bound to Control-;

Opens a dialog containing all of the current windows.

	Control-X K

proc: killWindowStatus , also bound to Command-W

Closes the current window, prompting to save if necessary.

	Control-X O

proc: otherThing 

If the current window is not a "split-pane", switches to the last previous
frontmost window.  If the current window IS a "split-pane", switches to the
other pane.

	Control-X Control-S

command: save , also bound to Command-S

Saves the current window.


	Control-X Control-W

command: saveAs 

Opens a standard "Save As" dialog.


	  	 	Text and Cursor Manipulation


	Control-X D

proc: killRegion 

Kills the region between the current mark point and the cursor.

	Control-X L

command: currentPosition 

Returns a status message displaying the current position (in bytes).

	Control-X U

command: undo , also bound to Command-Z

Undo the most recent action.

	Control-X Control-X

command: exchangePointAndMark , also bound to Numeric Keypad 5

Exchanges the cursor point and the previous mark.  See the numeric key pad
section in the help file "Keyboard Shortcuts" for more information.


Again, these are only some of the keyboard shortcuts associated with the Emacs
package.  Many more can be found in the "Edit > Emacs" menu.


	  	 	Meta Keys


The other modifier keys that emacs had to work with on early keyboards was the
Escape key, and, if the keyboard provide it, an additional modifier key that
emacs refers to as the "Meta" key.  Not all keyboards had such a modifier,
and, if they did, rarely called it the same thing.  In this emac mimicking
keyset, the Option key is used as the emacs "Meta" key.


	  	Recent Changes


	NEW OPTION: 
	
In the "Config > Preferences > Miscellaneous…" dialog, there is a preference
named "Emacs Last Word If Touching".  If this preference is turned on, the
behavior of a few emacs keyboard shortcut procedures changes.  Those
procedures are:

    proc: upcaseWord
    proc: downcaseWord
    proc: capitalizeWord
    proc: hiliteWord

Preferences: Packages
   
Those procedures behave as normal except when the cursor is right at the end
of a word.  In that case they effect the word they are "touching".  I find
this convenient as after I have typed a word is the usual point at which I
realize that I should have capitalized it.  Ditto for the others.

	NEW PROC AND KEY-BINDING: 

There is one navigation shortcut that was not in the previous emacs packages,
a shortcut for "Beginning Of Logical Line".  That procedure moves the cursor
to the first non-white character of the current line.  Its emacs-like shortcut
is Escape-M.

 
	----------------------------------------------------------------------

Author: ??

Emacs Help file updated by Craig Barton Upright

Maintainer: Craig Barton Upright
    E-mail: <cupright@alumni.princeton.edu>
       www: <http://www.purl.org/net/cbu>

This document has been placed in the public domain.
