
Title:			MetafontHelp
Project:        	Metafont mode doc
Author:			Bernard DESGRAUPES <berdesg@easynet.fr>
Homepage:		<http://perso.easynet.fr/~berdesg/alpha.html>
Alpha-Version:		7.4
AlphaTcl-Version:	7.5d13
Modified:	 	2001-05-28 09:33:36
  

----------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Introduction
2. Installation
   2.1. Automatic installation
   2.2. Manual installation
   2.3. After installing
3. Description
   3.1. Choose Metafont Mode  submenu
   3.2. Processing Options submenu
   3.3. Source Files  submenu
   3.4. Convert Files submenu
   3.5. Other Files submenu
4. File marking
5. The Mark pop-up menu
6. The Functions pop-up menu
7. Command double clicking a word
8. Option clicking the title bar
9. Completions
10. Key bindings
11. Metafont Mode preferences
12. Version History
13. Known problems
14. License and Disclaimer
----------------------------------------------------------------------


----------------------------------------------------------------------

					Abstract

This is a help file for the Metafont mode in Alpha.
This file should be located in the Help subfolder of Alpha's folder to
show up automatically in the Help menu when Alpha is loaded.


1. Introduction

MetafontMode is a mode for the text editor Alpha: it is  designed  to  make
writing, processing and testing  of  Metafont  source  files  much  easier.
Metafont is the programming language written, as a  companion  to  TeX,  by
Donald Knuth in  order to create characters, fonts, font families (and many
other things). 

Once Metafont mode is installed, the opening of a Metafont source file (i-e
with extension ".mf") invokes a new menu (called Metafont !)  in  the  menu
bar with the following features :

¥ easy insertion of all the basic  Metafont  commands  (with  electric stops) 
¥ syntax coloring
¥ capacity to process a source file from  within  Alpha  with  various
  flags, printer modes, input base files
¥ editing of the log file
¥ capacity to make the pk file, to make the dvi from the generic font,
  to view the dvi;
¥ creating and editing the property list for a font
¥ capacity to manage ordinary and virtual fonts metrics, converting files 
  with tftopl, pltotf, vptovf and vftovp
¥ processing all the source files in a folder
¥ file marking
¥ ready to use template for new fonts
¥ key bindings to choose the processing mode, process files etc.
¥ word completion
¥ command clicking on keywords and commands (to bring their definition)
¥ option clicking on the title bar of a window to bring a list of .mf
  and .log files located at the same level or in a  selected  folder  and
  allowing to edit them.


As of this release, both CMacTeX Metafont and OzMetafont are supported.


2. Installation

2.1. Automatic installation

Open the "OPEN TO INSTALL" file. Opening this file indicates to Alpha  that
a new package has to be installed  :  the  procedure  is  automatic.  Alpha
knows  where to store the different elements of your Metafont Mode package.
 
2.2. Manual installation

¥ put the "Metafont Mode" folder in the "Modes" subfolder  of  the  "Tcl"
folder which is located at the same level as your Alpha application

¥ put the "Metafont Help" file in the "Help" folder located  at  the  same
level  as your Alpha application. Next time you launch Alpha, you will have
a "Metafont Help" item in the Help menu to edit this file.

¥ launch Alpha. You have to  rebuild  the  package  indices  and  the  Tcl
ones. "Rebuild Package Indices" is  in  the  Config--"Packages  menu,  and
"Rebuild Tcl Indices" is in the Tcl menu.
 
¥ quit Alpha and relaunch it : that's all there is to it. 


2.3. After installing

From now on, the opening of any file with the ".mf" extension  will  invoke
the Metafont menu. Have a look at the mode specific  preferences  :  create
or open any  Metafont source file and choose "Preferences..." in the "Mode 
Prefs" submenu of the "Config" menu. You can set, for instance, the  name  
of  the  printer mode corresponding to your printer, or indicate the path  
of a working folder. More explanations below.



3. Description

Description of the Metafont Menu items :


<Switch To Metafont>
Launches the Metafont application in front
<Run The Buffer>
Calls up the Metafont application and processes the 
current window
<Save And Run>
Saves the current window and calls up the Metafont 
application to process it.
<Run a File>
Prompts you for a "mf" file to run.
<Run a Folder>
When pressing the option key "Run a File" becomes "Run a Folder"
Prompts you for a folder of "mf" files to run.
<Run Current Folder>
When pressing the control key "Run a File" becomes "Run Current Folder"
Metafont will execute all the "mf" files in the currently 
selected folder if any. Its name is reflected at the bottom 
of the "Other Files" submenu.


3.1. Choose Metafont Mode  submenu
The word mode has a different meaning for Alpha and
for Metafont : here it means the Metafont's printer mode, the 
one you specify when you (or Maketexpk) process a font.
As usual with Metafont if no mode is specified, the 
default is proof. You can choose among the following
list. User Defined should be set in the Current
Mode Prefs : it is the printer mode at your installation.
If you do not know which mode corresponds to your
installation, look in the modes.mf file which comes with your
TeX distribution. You can edit this file directly in Alpha 
from this Metafont Menu (see below).



<Proof>
To make proof characters at 2602 resolution (36 pixels per 
point). No tfm file is produced in this mode.
<Smoke>
To make black proof characters. No tfm file 
is produced in this mode.
<Localfont>
Use this mode when you do not know the printer mode's 
name of your installation : if your administrator did his 
job well, the "localfont variable" contains the printer mode.
<User Defined>
Comes as default as canonex : you set here what you want.

	
3.2. Processing Options submenu
Define here any particular processing option allowed 
by Metafont.



<Mag...>
Default value is 1, which means no magnification.
<Magstep...>
Default value is 0, which means no magnification
Note that you choose a magnification either in mag or in magstep : 
if you choose the magstep syntax, any choice you previously made 
with mag will be omitted (and vice versa).
<Base File...>
You can specify a particular file (a base file for instance)
which should be input before the file you want to process. Like in
the command line :

	 mf \mode=foo ; input somebasefile.mf ; input currentwindowfile.mf

To cancel an input file you have to clear all options (see below the 
menu item "Clear All Options")
<Gfcorners>
Option to draw corners at the corners of the box 
containing each character. Works in smoke mode.
<Imagerules>
Option to draw the box of each character.
<Nodisplays>
Don't show the characters on the monitor : to build fonts 
faster
<Notransforms>
Don't calculate any transformation if currenttransform is
identity. To run faster.
<Screenchars>
Show each character once it has been calculated.
<Screenstrokes>
Show each character stroke after stroke while it is calculated
<Clear All Options>
Cancel all previously selected options.


3.3. Source Files  submenu
This submenu contains a hierarchical list of mf source files. You must set the 
path to the folder containing the mf's in the Mode Prefs : the "Source Files"
submenu reproduces the hierarchical structure of this folder.  The
depth of nested subfolders can be set in the Prefs with the "Nesting Depth"
variable. You can change it at any moment. If your main folder is to 
big, you might run into memory problems : this can be solved by 
increasing the memory allocated to Alpha. Choose a folder 
corresponding to your needs, not necessarily the top one.
Choosing any item in the "Source Files" menu will edit the corresponding file.


<Rebuild Source List >
In case new Otp's have been added, you can update the Otp List 
		with this menu item.

	
	
3.4. Convert Files submenu



<Convert gf to pk>
Invokes gftopk to transform the "gf" file produced after a run of
Metafont to the "pk" (packed) format. This procedure reads in the
log file to find the name of the gf file (which  depends  on  the
mode chosen and the mag) : if the log file is missing,  it  won't
work. Note that  with  OzMetafont,  pk  fonts  are  automatically
produced when a source file is processed.
<Convert gf to dvi>
Invokes gftodvi to transform the "gf" file produced after  a  run
of Metafont to a "dvi" (device independant) file. This  procedure
reads in the log file to find the name  of  the  gf  file  (which
depends on the mode chosen and the mag) :  if  the  log  file  is
missing, it won't work. This item  is  present  only  when  using
CMacTeX Metafont.
<View dvi file>
If a dvi file has been produced (see previous item) you can  view
it with the dvi  previewer  (dvipreview  with  CMacTeX,  built-in
previewer with Oz).


The following items allow you to process a single file or all the 
files in a selected folder :

<Tfm to pl...>
Prompts the user for a "tfm" file to convert  to  human  readable
format : extension of these files will be "fpl"
<Vf to vpl...>
Prompts the user for a "vpl" file to convert to the corresponding
"tfm" and "vf"
<Pl to tfm...>
Prompts the user for a "pl" file  in  human  readable  format  to
compile a tfm file
<Vpl to vf...>
Prompts the user for "tfm" and  "vf"  files  to  convert  to  the
corresponding "vpl"


3.5. Other Files submenu


<Open Log File>
Edit in Alpha (read-only)  the  log  file  corresponding  to  the
currentwindow and produced by a run of Metafont on  this  current
window.
<Open Property List >
Open the property list file related to the current window (if  it
exists, i-e if you have already converted the tfm to pl)
<Open Modes.mf>
Edit (read-only) the modes.mf file. It is the file containing the
printer mode definitions for allmost all the available printers.
<Open Plain.mf>
Edit (read-only) the plain.mf file. It is the file containing the
definition of all the basic Metafont macros.
Note : you have to set the paths  to  these  files  in  the  mode
specific preferences when you first use the Metafont Mode.
<Remove Files>
Sub menu to delete several types of files in the current folder :
log, gf, pk, dvi, tfm, vf, pl, vpl. The pl files will be  removed
only if they  have  the  plf  extension  (to  avoid  accidentally
destroying Perl script files)
<Select A Folder...>
Use the "Select A Folder..." item to select another folder. 
If a folder has already been 
selected, its name will be recalled at the bottom of the "Other Files" 
submenu. It says either
<No Folder Selected>
If no folder is currently selected.
<Current Folder Is:>
followed by the name of the currently selected folder otherwise.


					
<New Font Template>
Builds a template for a complete new font source  file.  User  is
asked for the number of characters in the font.
<Make Short Menu / Make Long Menu>
Toggle between short and long menu. The long menu adds  a  series
of submenus containing  all  Metafont  commands  (primitives  and
macros from the plain format).


Any item you  choose  will  be  inserted  in  your  file  at  the
cursor's current position with electric tabs for  those  commands
which need arguments. In some cases, you will be asked to enter a
number (see "makegrid" for instance). All the macros relevant  to
a particular aspect have been    collected    together    in    a
(supposedly) logical way:

¥ "Boolean"
¥ "Characters"
¥ "Conditions"
¥ "Debugging"
¥ "Definitions"
¥ "Displaying"
¥ "Drawing"
¥ "Font Internals"
¥ "Functions"
¥ "Internal Variables"
¥ "Miscellaneous"
¥ "Output"
¥ "Paths"
¥ "Pens"
¥ "Pictures"
¥ "Pixellisation"
¥ "Positioning"
¥ "Strings"
¥ "Transformations"
¥ "Modes Definitions"
¥ "Variables"


 NB : make use of the  option,  shift  and  command  keys  to  get
variants of the macros. For instance, if you hold the option  key
down, "addto contour" will become "addto contour withpen" ;  with
the command key you will get "addto contour withweight"


4. File marking

Various elements are marked   :    macros    definitions,    character
definitions, related  files,  input  files  etc.  and  can  be  easily
accessed through pop-up menus and option or command clicking.


5. The Mark pop-up menu

If you choose to mark your file from the "M" pop-up menu (top right of
your editing window), all the def, vardef and  beginchar  declarations
in your source file  will  be  marked.  Remember  that  the  beginchar
command is customizable (in the Mode Prefs) and any  change  you  make
there will be taken into account for marking.
If the 'Auto Mark' checkbox is checked  in  the  Prefs,  the  file  is
automatically marked at opening.

6. The Functions pop-up menu

The "{}" pop-up menu  (top right of your editing window)  contains the
functions and macros defined in your source file. We list here all the
def, primarydef, secondarydef, tertiarydef and vardef  definitions  as
well as the files input with an "input" command.

7. Command double clicking a word

If you Command-Double-Click on a keyword you  access  its  definition.
This procedure looks first  for  a  definition  in  the  current  file
itself, then in the list of primitives, then  in  the  plain  Metafont
macros file and finally in the other text files located  in  the  same
folder and  called  in  the  current  file  by  an    'input'  command
(typically they are macros files).

8. Option clicking the title bar

If you Option-Click on a the title bar, you get a list of all the  .mf
and .log files located :

¥ in the "local" folder (folder of your current window). 
¥ in the "selected" folder (selected when you process an entire folder 
    with "Run A Folder" or in the "Remove Files" sub menu)


Selecting any item in this list will open it in a window or bring  its
window to front if it is already open.


9. Completions

There is a set of completion procedures in Metafont  Mode.  To  enable
them, you must activate the "elecCompletion"  package  (in  "Config--"
Preferences--" Menus and Features") and  choose  your  completion  key
(default is F1).

Completion will behave differently depending on the context.

¥ First we have a set abbreviations and contractions.  Just  type  the
following abbreviations and  hit  the  completion  key  to  have  them
expanded to the entire word or to a complete structure :
bc   	beginchar   endchar                
bg   	begingroup    endgroup             
dbp  	define_blacker_pixels              
dcp  	define_corrected_pixels            
dgxp 	define_good_x_pixels               
dgyp 	define_good_y_pixels               
dhcp 	define_horizontal_corrected_pixels 
dp  	 define_pixels                      
dwp 	 define_whole_pixels                
dwvp 	define_whole_vertical_pixels       
sc  	 screen_cols                        
sr  	 screen_rows                        

for      for    endfor;          
def      def    enddef;          
prim     primarydef    enddef;   
sec      secondarydef    enddef; 
ter      tertiarydef    enddef;  
vardef   vardef    enddef;       
forever  forever  endfor;        
forsuffixes forsuffixes    endfor;  
if       if    fi                

cu'n 	currentpen        
cu'p 	currentpicture    
cu't 	currenttransform  
cu'w 	currentwindow     
di'p	 directionpoint    
di't 	directiontime     
re'a 	reflectedabout    
ro'a 	rotatedaround     

¥ You can  also  type  the  first  letters  of  a  word  and  hit  the
completion key.  If  it  is  recognized  as  a  keyword,  it  will  be
completed. If there are different possible completions, they  will  be
listed in the status bar : hit the completion key again and  you  will
have a list of all the possibilities from which you   can  select  the
one you want.
¥ With 'input' instructions : type 'input xx' and the proc  will  look
for a known mf file whose name starts with 'xx'.  This  proc  searches
among the mf files in the source directory defined in the  mode  prefs
(and in ALL its subfolders).  If  the  source  directory  hasn't  been
defined, it searches in the current folder and its subfolders.




10. Key bindings

A few key bindings are defined in Metafont mode. For all of them you have 
to hit 'ctrl-m', release, then hit one of the following letters :
'p', 's', 'l' or 'u'
       to select respectively "p"roof, "s"moke, "l"ocalfont 
       or "u"ser defined modes
'b' to process the "b"uffer                      
'f' to process a "f"ile                          
'd' to process a "d"irectory                     
'n' to create a "n"ew font template              
'm' to edit the "m"odes file 'modes.mf'          
'c' to edit the macro "c"ommands file 'plain.mf' 
'g' to edit the lo"g" file                       
't' to convert "t"fm file to pl                  
'i' to convert gf file to dv"i"                  
'k' to convert gf file to p"k"                   
'i' to "v"iew the d"v"i                          

11. Metafont Mode preferences

The "Preferences..." item in the "Mode Prefs" submenu  of  the  "Config"
menu allows you to edit specific preferences for  the  Metafont  Mode.
All of them should be self-explanatory.
You can specify there :

¥ the paths to the modes.mf and plain.mf files.
¥ the name of the output folder in which to put the  files  produced  by
Metafont, gftopk of tftopl
¥ a "User Beginchar" : it is  customary  in  Metafont's  font  files  to
modify the definition of the beginchar/endchar routine and  to  give  it  a
different name : for  instance  "beginlogochar"  in  the  logo.mf  font  or
"cmchar" in Computer Modern fonts or whatever. You can  specify  here  this
modified name in order to get a correct file marking from  the  little  "M"
pop-up menu on the top right corner of the current window.
¥ the "Use Work Fold" flag can  be  set  if  you  want  to  designate  a
different folder for output (with the "Mfwork Folder"  pref).  By  default,
the output folder is the folder of the current window.  This  feature  will
work only if you have CMacTeX Metafont version 2.2.1 or later.


12. Version History


- 1.0b1 -- 03/28/99 -- Created the Metafont Mode including the following
features : new Metafont menu, submenus to insert  Metafont  macros  with
electric stops, syntax colorizing.

- 1.0b2 -- 03/30/99 -- Added file marking  :  all  the  def  and  vardef
declarations are marked. All the beginchar environments are  marked  too
(beginchar can be changed by the user).

- 1.0b3 -- 04/02/99 -- Added submenu to choose  the  processing  options
(screenchars, screenstrokes etc) and the Metafont  printer  mode.  Added
direct editing of the modes.mf and plain.mf files. The  paths  to  these
files is stored in the Current Mode Prefs.

- 1.0b4 -- 04/06/99 -- Added Apple event to  have  CMaCTeX  process  the
current window or any mf file. Added building of the entire command line
that will be sent to Metafont.

- 1.0b5 -- 04/07/99 -- Added error messages for  noncompatible  options.
Problems of compatibility between mag and magstep resolved.  Editing  of
the property list file (human readable translation of the tfm file)

- 1.0b6 -- 04/08/99 -- Added conversion of gf file to pk file  from  the
Metafont menu.

- 1.0b7 -- 04/09/99 -- Improved error handling. Corrected a few bugs.

- 1.0b8 -- 04/15/99 -- Made "Other Files" submenu dynamic. Includes  the
name of the current files and rebuilds each time it is necessary :  when
a window is changed, when a file has been processed etc.

- 1.0b9 -- 04/17/99 -- Added alternate items in the menu : when pressing
the option key, "Run a File" becomes "Run a  Folder"  etc.  We  can  now
process a whole folder, convert all the processed files to pk;  all  the
tfm to pl...

- 1.0b10 -- 04/19/99 -- Added New Font Template.

- 1.0b11 -- 04/21/99 -- Added T. Kiffe's  new  Apple  event  syntax  for
CMacTeX Metafont to take the output folder into account.

- 1.0b12 -- 04/27/99 -- Added support for OzMetafont.  Since  OzMetafont
cannot receive a complete Mf command line  through  an  Apple  event,  a
temporary make file is created and processed by the built-in MakeTeXPk

- 1.0b13 -- 04/29/99 -- Extended the "make file" technique to a complete
folder. Extended it to CmacTeX too. Runs much faster : the user  doesn't
have anymore to confirm between each run of Metafont.

- 1.0b14 -- 05/25/99 -- Corrected a bug concerning conversion of tfm  to
pl. 

- 1.0 -- 05/27/99 -- First public release of metafontMode (version 1.0).
 

- 1.01 -- 05/29/99 -- Corrected a minor bug for  the  Metafont  menu  to
build correctly with the newly released Alpha 7.2.

- 1.01a -- 09/19/99 -- Corrected a bug due to new Alpha 7.2 syntax : old
proc isPositiveInteger is replaced now by is::PositiveInteger.

- 1.1.1 --  09/21/99  --  Started  a  Metapost  Mode.  This  will  be  a
standalone mode so I have to change the name of the procedures  in  both
modes to avoid interferences  :  all  procs  follow  the  "Mf::"  naming
convention. rearranged the sub-menus.

- 1.1.2 -- 12/02/99 -- Added a "Convert Gf to Dvi"  command  (only  with
CMacTeX) along with a "View Dvi" command  in  the  submenu  "OtherFiles"
Corrected a bug concerning the paths with  the  tfm  to  pl  conversion.
Corrected multiple tftopl conversion routines.

- 1.1.3 -- 12/16/99 -- Rewritten code to clarify the outputfolders'mess.
A new flag "useWorkFold" has been added : if not set the  output  folder
defaults to the current folder ; if  set  you  can  choose  a  different
folder for the output (only with CMacTeX Metafont 2.2.1 or later)

- 1.1.4 -- 01/12/00 -- Redesigned  the  "Other  Files"  menu  :  it  now
indicates which is the currently selected folder. Added a few  items  to
the "Remove Files" submenu. Added a  userEndchar  in  the  prefs  (since
there was already a userBeginchar, this is logical) : they are  used  in
the New Font Template (default values are  beginchar  and  endchar)  and
with the "beginchar...endchar" menu item.

- 1.1.5 -- 02/12/00 -- Corrected a bug : the vftovp menu  item  did  not
work because of a typing error. Added a few keywords met in the pl files
for syntax colorizing.

- 1.1.6 -- 03/07/00 -- Added some menu items  concerning  pencircle  and
pensquare : press the option or the command key to get variants. Added a
proc to build a penstroke command : use  the  penstroke  item  with  the
option key.

- 1.1.7 -- 04/18/00 -- Added missing primitives to  the  Keywords  list.
Improved the mark file procedure.

- 1.1.8 -- 05/03/00 -- Added a lot of key bindings. Changed  some  basic
code for future compatibility with Alpha 8 and AlphaTk.

- 1.2 -- 05/08/00    --    Added    Mf::DblClick,    Mf::OptionTitlebar,
Mf::OptionTitlebarSelect  and  Mf::parseFuncs  ad  hoc  procs.  Modified
syntax colorizing to distinguish Metafont primitives from  plain  format
macros. 

- 1.2.1 -- 05/20/00 -- Added a "Source Files" subfolder to list  the  mf
source files on the installation : top level folder  is  chosen  in  the
mode prefs. Added a flag to en/dis-able this feature.  Added  completion
procs. 

- 1.2.2 -- 06/06/00 -- Improved the file marking proc  :  now  mark  the
description string of a char if there is one or its character code.  Def
and beginchar instructions are separated.

- 2.0 -- 02/13/01 -- Rewritten Metafont Mode to make it compatible  with
Alpha 7.4 and future Alpha 8. Modernised the Apple Events to make use of
the new tclAE library.  Reorganized  the  menu  structure  and  added  a
Convert File submenu. Possibility to switch between a short and  a  long
menu. Changed license to BSD.

- 2.0.1 -- 04/04/01 -- Suppressed unnecessary setmode in ShowBindings.

- 2.0.2 -- 15/07/01 -- Update of  obsolete  removeArrDef  and  addArrDef
procs. Corrected a bug at startup when user cancels choice of mf app.



13. Known problems

With versions of CMacTeX Metafont OLDER  than  2.2.1  (this  is  Metafont's
version number, not CMacTeX version number), the output folder defaults  to
the current window's folder. In this case, don't  change  it  in  the  mode
specific preferences.

The file extension for property lists (corresponding to fonts  metrics)  is
'pl' which is the same as the extension of Perl script files :  this  means
that when you open a pl file, it invokes automatically the Perl  menu.  The
only thing you can do is to set Mf mode in the  popup  menu  at  the  right
bottomof the screen.

Due to a CMacTeX limitation concerning the tftopl, pltotf  etc.  programms,
it is necessary to quit and relaunch the programms each time they are used.
This leads to a semi-automatic processing of an entire  folder  :  user  is
asked to click each time to guarantee that delays are  sufficient  for  the
applications to perform their tasks. Mf itself is not concerned by this.
So far only CMacTeX Metafont and OzMetafont are supported :  I'll  try
to add support for Textures in the future if there is a demand for it.


Please e-mail any problem or bug you encounter : <berdesg@easynet.fr>

Visit my Metafont Web page for updates and the utilities for Alpha page:

<http://perso.easynet.fr/~berdesg/metafont.html>

<http://perso.easynet.fr/~berdesg/alpha.html>

14. License and Disclaimer

Copyright : Bernard Desgraupes, 2000, 2001
        All rights reserved.

This software is free software and distributed under the terms of  the  new
BSD license :

Redistribution and  use  in  source  and  binary  forms,  with  or  without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

¥ Redistributions of source code must retain the  above  copyright  notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
¥ Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in  the  documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
¥ Neither the name of Bernard Desgraupes nor the names of its  contributors
may be used to endorse or  promote  products  derived  from  this  software
without specific prior written permission.

This software is provided by the copyright holders and contributors "as is"
and any express or implied warranties, including, but not limited  to,  the
implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular  purpose
are disclaimed. In no event shall the regents or contributors be liable for
any direct, indirect,  incidental,  special,  exemplary,  or  consequential
damages (including, but not limited to, procurement of substitute goods  or
services; loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption)  however
caused and  on  any  theory  of  liability,  whether  in  contract,  strict
liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in  any  way
out of the use of this software, even if advised of the possibility of such
damage. 

