Title:                  phpModeHelp
Version:                $Revision 0.1 $
Author:                 Bernard DESGRAUPES <bdesgraupes@easyconnect.fr>
Homepage:		<http://webperso.easyconnect.fr/bdesgraupes/alpha.html>
Type:                   Help
Mode:                   Aida
Created: 		2002-01-30 16:10:06
Modified:		2002-06-28 21:48:17
Keywords:		PHP


					Abstract

This is "PHP mode Help", help file for the PHP mode in Alpha. For Alpha  to
find it, you must move this file to the "Help" folder located at  the  same
level as the Alpha application itself.



----------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Introduction
2. Installation
   2.1. Automatic installation
   2.2. Manual installation
3. Electrics
4. Words completion
5. File marking
6. Preferences
7. Version History
8. Known problems
9. License and Disclaimer
----------------------------------------------------------------------

1. Introduction
This mode implements very basic mode-specific settings to  write  and  edit
PHP files in Alpha. It currently provides the following features:

¥ syntax coloring
¥ comments handling
¥ function definitions marking
¥ basic completion namely : keywords  completion    and    electrics    for
conditional structures


PHP mode will be developed further in the future when AlphaX (a  carbonized
version of Alpha running  on  OSX)  is  available.  Any  contributions  are
welcome. 

2. Installation
Follow these instructions only if Php Mode is  not  already  part  of  your
Alpha distribution.

2.1. Automatic installation

Open the "OPEN TO INSTALL" file. Opening this file tells Alpha that  a  new
package has to be installed : the procedure is automatic. Alpha knows where
to store the different elements of your PHP Mode package.
 
2.2. Manual installation

¥ put the "PHPMode.tcl" file in the "Modes" subfolder of the  "Tcl"
folder which is located at the same level as your Alpha application

¥ put the "PHP Mode Help" file in the "Help" folder located at the  same
level as your Alpha application. Next time you launch Alpha, you will  have
a "PHP Mode Help" item in the Help menu to edit this file.

¥ launch Alpha. You have to rebuild the package indices and the Tcl ones.
"Rebuild Package Indices" is in the "Config--Packages"  menu,  and  "Rebuild
Tcl Indices" is in the Tcl menu.
 
¥ quit Alpha and relaunch it : that's all there is to it. 



3. Electrics
PHP mode defines electric expansions for the following keywords :

	 if, ifelse, ifelseif, elseif, while, do, for,
	 foreach, foreachkey, switch, php

This means that you just have  to  type  one  of  them  and  then  hit  the
completion key (the Electric Completions package must be active)  and  they
will expand to a complete structure which you can fill  very  easily  :  it
contains electric tabs, ie bullet symbols, and you can jump from one to the
following using the Tab key. For instance, typing 'do' (without the quotes)
and completing yields :

	 do {
	     
	     } while ( );


Typing 'for' (without the quotes) and completing yields :

	 for ( ;  ;  ) {
	      
	     }


Typing 'for' (without the quotes) and completing yields :

	 switch () {
	       case  :
	          
	       default:
	          
	     }


4. Words completion
PHP mode also have a system of language keywords completion. Type the first
letters of a keyword and Alpha will complete. If there are several choices,
you'll be prompted to choose one of them. For instance, type 'sh'  (without
the quotes) and hit the completion key to get 'shuffle'.

It you type imaget and hit the completion key, a  list  will  be  displayed
with the possible choices which are in this case :
imagettfbbox, imagettftext, imagetypes.

5. File marking
All the functions defined in the document with the following scheme 

	  function foo ($arg_1, $arg_2, ..., $arg_n) {
	      Instructions here...
	  }

can be marked and made accessible via the "M" popup menu in  the  top-right
corner of the document's window.


6. Preferences
A few preferences can be set in the PHP Mode Preferences which  you  access
from the "Config -- Mode Prefs -- Preferences..." menu  item.  Among  other
choices you can set :

¥ the prefix string (Default is // )
¥ the syntax coloring

¥ Color for comments (Default is red)
¥ Color for keywords (Default is blue)
¥ Color for strings (Default is green)
¥ Color for delimiters (Default is magenta)



7. Version History

¥ 0.1.1	01/05/08	First release.


8. Known problems

Please e-mail any problem or bug you encounter : 
 <bdesgraupes@easyconnect.fr>

9. License and Disclaimer

Copyright Bernard Desgraupes, 2001, 2002
        All rights reserved.
This software is free software distributed under the terms of the  new  BSD
license :
Redistribution and  use  in  source  and  binary  forms,  with  or  without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

¥ Redistributions of source code must retain the  above  copyright  notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
¥ Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in  the  documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
¥ Neither the name of Bernard Desgraupes nor the names of its  contributors
may be used to endorse or  promote  products  derived  from  this  software
without specific prior written permission.

This software is provided by the copyright holders and contributors "as is"
and any express or implied warranties, including, but not limited  to,  the
implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular  purpose
are disclaimed. In no event shall the regents or contributors be liable for
any direct, indirect,  incidental,  special,  exemplary,  or  consequential
damages (including, but not limited to, procurement of substitute goods  or
services; loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption)  however
caused and  on  any  theory  of  liability,  whether  in  contract,  strict
liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in  any  way
out of the use of this software, even if advised of the possibility of such
damage. 

